**Semiconductor Supply Chain**

US trade gov site lists these categories as critical - Public Health,
ICT, Energy and Critical minerals and materials. We have decided to
focus on semiconductors which comes under the sector ICT for our supply
chain vulnerability analysis. This decision is based on the fact that
the semiconductor supply chain is currently under acute stress, with
both structural and geopolitical vulnerabilities that are widely
acknowledged in global policy and industry circles.

One of the most immediate and significant issues is the escalating
geopolitical tension between the U.S. and China, which directly impacts
semiconductor trade. The U.S. government has imposed export controls on
advanced semiconductors, particularly AI chips like NVIDIA's A100 and
H100 models as well as chip-making equipment, in an effort to limit
China's access to critical technologies. In retaliation, China
restricted exports of gallium and germanium, two essential inputs for
semiconductor manufacturing. These measures have created uncertainty and
real supply constraints across global chip production pipelines.

Adding to this fragility is the extreme concentration of advanced chip
manufacturing in Taiwan. Taiwanese companies hold a 68% market share in
the manufacture of semiconductors. TSMC alone produces over 90% of the
world's leading-edge semiconductors which are essential for cutting-edge
AI, smartphones, and data centre hardware. The geopolitical sensitivity
of the Taiwan Strait means that even the threat of disruption has
wide-reaching implications.

Moreover, demand for semiconductors is growing again, mainly because of
increased use in AI, data centres, and electric vehicles. According to
Deloitte's 2025 Semiconductor Outlook, the industry is recovering after
a slowdown in 2023 and is now entering a new growth phase. There's
especially strong demand for chips used in AI systems, automotive
applications, and data infrastructure. However, this rising demand is
putting pressure on the supply of both advanced chips and older chips
used in cars and industrial products. Deloitte also points out that
ongoing issues like geopolitical tensions, export restrictions, and
limited manufacturing capacity could lead to new chip shortages by the
end of 2025. This highlights the importance of understanding and
improving the resilience of semiconductor supply chains.Â 

In summary, semiconductors are not only critical from an economic and
technological standpoint but are also currently under visible stress
from multiple directions. Focusing on this sector allows us to deliver
timely, relevant, and policy-relevant insights that directly address one
of the most pressing global challenges in supply chain resilience today.

**References**

<https://www.csis.org/analysis/understanding-biden-administrations-updated-export-controls>

<https://www.cfr.org/blog/will-chinas-reliance-taiwanese-chips-prevent-war>

<https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/industry/technology/technology-media-telecom-outlooks/semiconductor-industry-outlook.html>
